# Welcome to Discover three.js!

This is the public repo for the book [Discover three.js](https://discoverthreejs.com/).

Pull requests are welcome, especially for:

* Keeping the book up to date with new three.js releases.
* Errata in the text or code examples.
* Any other bugs, browsers, or CSS issues.

For larger contributions, please get in touch with on lewy@discoverthreejs.com before making changes.

## Developer Guide

To build and view the book, use the following command four step process.

Prerequisites: Node.js, [Hugo](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo)

1. Clone or download the repo
2. Run `npm install`
3. If you're using Windows, you're good to go. Otherwise, go [here](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/releases/tag/v0.74.3) and download the Hugo binary for you system, then replace hugo.exe in the project root with it.
4. Run `npm start`
5. Go to `http://localhost:8080/` (with livereload) or `http://localhost:3000/` (without livereload)

## Technical Details

The book is built with Hugo, and this repo follows a fairly typical folder structure for a Hugo project, although the `content/` folder has been renamed to `markdown/`.

However, the build process is quite different than a normal Hugo build. All the gory details can be found in the `buildTools/` folder. But, you probably don't need to worry about that. Just run `npm start`.

### Important folders

* `markdown/content` - all the words in the book are contained here
* `src/apps` - JS source code
* `styles/apps/chapters` - SCSS styles for the book are here.
* `static/examples` - the code for the IDE examples are here. Each example is a `World` - for examples: `static/examples/worlds/first-steps/first-scene` contains the example for the chapter **First Scene**. See `static/examples/README.md` for more details.
* `/public` - this is where the live site is served from. Everything in here is generated by Hugo or from SCSS and JS source files.

All JS, SCSS, and markdown files are watched for changes and rebuilt when you run the `npm start` command.

## Updating Three.js Version

The three.js folder in node_modules is copied to the `/static/examples/vendor/three` folder.

`./node_modules/three` (original) -> `/static/examples/vendor/three` (copied)

This is required since the IDE needs to load Three.js at runtime. To prevent three.js versions getting out of sync across the project, it's best to have one source of the file in node_modules/ and reference this everywhere. However, the IDE can only access files in static/.

Whenever you update the three.js version, remember to copy the file across to the examples folder!